# GRNmap:  Gene Regulatory Network modeling and parameter estimation

## About GRNmap
A gene regulatory network (GRN) consists of genes, transcription factors, and the regulatory connections between them that govern the level of expression of mRNA and proteins from those genes. The dynamics of a GRN is how gene expression in the network changes over time. GRNmap (Gene Regulatory Network modeling and parameter estimation) uses ordinary differential equations to model the dynamics of small- to medium-scale GRNs. Using a penalized least squares approach, GRNmap estimates production rates, expression thresholds, and regulatory weights for each transcription factor in the network based on timecourse gene expression data (typically generated by DNA microarrays, but amenable to data from other technologies), and then performs a forward simulation of the dynamics of the network. Our approach is described in the paper, [Dahlquist, K.D., Fitzpatrick, B.G., Camacho, E.T., Entzminger, S.D., and Wanner, N.C. (2015) Parameter Estimation for Gene Regulatory Networks from Microarray Data: Cold Shock Response in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Bulletin of Mathematical Biology, 77(8), 1457-1492, DOI: 10.1007/s11538-015-0092-6](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11538-015-0092-6/fulltext.html). 

Although originally developed to model GRNs from budding yeast, <i>Saccharomyces cerevisiae</i>, GRNmap can be used with any species for which you have timecourse gene expression data.

There are several options for running GRNmap:
* Sigmoidal or Michaelis-Menten production function
* Estimate parameters or perform a forward simulation only
  * Estimate production rates or fix them to a particular value
  * Estimate expression threholds or fix them to a particular value
  * Automatically perform multiple successive runs for fine tuning of the optimization parameter, alpha 
* Automatically generate expression plots or not

GRNmap can be run from source code in MATLAB.
Users without a MATLAB license can use the executable to run GRNmap as a stand-alone program.

### Availability

GRNmap code is available under the open source [BSD license](http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause).

### System Requirements and Compatibility:
* The GRNmap code was developed and tested with MATLAB R2014b; it may not function properly with other versions of MATLAB.
* GRNmap is only compatible with the Windows operating system because of the function it uses to read and write Microsoft Excel spreadsheets. It has only been tested on Windows 7.
* We recommend running GRNmap with a minimum of 8.00 GB of RAM and a 2.40 GHz processor. GRNmap may be compatible with slower systems; the amount of RAM and processor speed will affect the speed with which GRNmap completes the estimation.

### Release Notes

See the [GRNmap About page](http://kdahlquist.github.io/GRNmap/about.html#releaseContent) for current release notes.

## Documentation

For documentation on how to format the input workbooks and how to interpret the output workbooks, please see the [GRNmap Documentation page](http://kdahlquist.github.io/GRNmap/documentation.html) or [wiki](https://github.com/kdahlquist/GRNmap/wiki).

### Quick Guide to Getting Started with a Demo Workbook
#### Running GRNmap from Code

#### Installing and Running the GRNmap Executable

## Contact

To request support or features or report bugs, please go to [GRNmap @ GitHub](https://github.com/kdahlquist/GRNmap).

For all other correspondence, please contact:

**Kam D. Dahlquist, Ph.D.**<br>
Associate Professor<br>
Department of Biology<br>
Loyola Marymount University<br>
Tel: 310-338-7697<br>
kdahlquist@lmu.edu<br>
http://myweb.lmu.edu/kdahlqui<br>

**Ben G. Fitzpatrick, Ph.D.**<br>
Professor<br>
Department of Mathematics<br>
Loyola Marymount University<br>
Tel: 310-338-7892<br>
bfitzpatrick@lmu.edu<br>
http://myweb.lmu.edu/bfitzpatrick<br>

