Lauren M. Kelly, Margaret J. ONeil, Ben G. Fitzpatrick, and Kam D. Dahlquist, Epsilon Delta, Loyola Marymount University.  

Modeling of Gene Regulatory Network Dynamics Predicts which Regulatory Relationships are Important for Controlling the Cold Shock Response in Saccharomyces Cerevisiae



A gene regulatory network (GRN) is a set of transcription factors which regulate the level of expression of genes encoding other transcription factors. The dynamics of a GRN show how gene expression in the network changes over time. Microarray data were obtained from the budding yeast, Saccharomyces cervisiae, before cold shock at 13°C and 15, 30, and 60 minutes after cold shock. A modified ANOVA showed that for all networks a large number of genes had a log2 fold change significantly different than zero at any time point. These genes were submitted to the YEASTRACT database to determine which transcription factors regulated them. Data from YEASTRACT were used to generate a candidate GRN of 15 nodes and 28 edges. We used differential equations modeling software (GRNmap) to estimate the production rates, expression thresholds, and regulatory weights for the network. Then, the edges of this network were systematically deleted one-by-one, to determine the importance of each edge in the network. After parameter estimation for the family of edge-deleted networks, we analyzed the least-squared error for the overall estimation and the mean-squared error for the expression of each gene.  We found that certain edge-deletion networks performed better than the intact network, and some performed more poorly. For example, the removal of the edge between SWI5 and ASH1 degraded model performance, but the removal of the edge between ZAP1 and ACE2 improved the model performance, suggesting that SWI5 and ASH1 play a role in regulating the cold shock response in yeast.

(250/250 words)
