ONeil, Margaret, Kam Dahlquist, and Ben Fitzpatrick. Epsilon Delta, Loyola Marymount University.  

Using Graph Statistics to Investigate the Properties of a Gene Regulatory Network that May Control the Cold Shock Response in Saccharomyces Cerevisiae



A gene regulatory network (GRN) is a set of transcription factors which regulate the level of expression of genes encoding other transcription factors. The dynamics of a GRN show how gene expression in the network changes over time. Microarray data were obtained from the wild type strain and five transcription factor deletion strains (Δcin5, Δgln3, Δhap4, Δhmo1, Δzap1) before cold shock at 13°C and 15, 30, and 60 minutes after cold shock. A modified ANOVA showed that for all networks a large number of genes had a log2 fold change significantly different than zero at any time point. These genes were submitted to the YEASTRACT database to determine which transcription factors regulated them. Data from each strain were used to generate a candidate GRN of 15 nodes and 28 edges. The edges of this network were then systematically deleted, to determine the significance of each edge in the network. GRNmap was used to estimate the production rates, expression thresholds, and regulatory weights for these networks. The open source software, Gephi, was used to analyze the graph properties of each network. Betweenness centrality, eigenvector centrality, eccentricity, and closeness centrality were computed. These centrality measures indicate which nodes are most easily accessed in each network, how central a node is in a network, and which nodes most frequently appear in the shortest paths of a network.  From this analysis we have eccentricity doess not vary in the edge-deleted networks, but eighenvector centrality does, suggesting that this value will be more useful for determining which transcription factors are more important in the network.

(245/250 words used)
